Clean up text for Aggregator-DP (#25)
wangshan/draft-wang-ppm-differential-privacy: draft-wang-ppm-differential-privacy.md

Other variants of DP are possible; see the literature review in
{{dp-explainer}} for details.

## Sensitivity

Differential privacy noise sometimes needs to be calibered based on the
`SENSITIVITY` of an aggregation function used to compute the aggregate result
over Client measurements. Sensitivity characterizes how much a change in a

> Client measurement can affect aggregate result. In this document, we focus on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Client measurement can affect the aggregate result. In this document, we focus on
```

the L1 and L2 sensitivity. We define them as a function over two neighboring
Client measurements:

> * L1 sensitivity: the sum of absolute values of differences at all coordinates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* L1 sensitivity: the sum of the absolute values of differences at all coordinates
```

  of the neighboring Client measurements.

> * L2 sensitivity: the sum of squares of the differences at all coordinates of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* L2 sensitivity: the sum of the squares of the differences at all coordinates of
```

### Prio3Histogram with Aggregator-DP

Aggregator-DP requires Aggregators to add noise to their aggregate shares before
outputting them. Under OAOC trust model, we can achieve good `EPSILON`-DP, or
`(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP, as long as at least one of the Aggregators is honest. The
amount of noise needed by Aggregator-DP typically depends on the target DP

> parameters `EPSILON`, `DELTA`, and also the `SENSITIVITY` of the aggregation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters `EPSILON` and `DELTA`, and also the `SENSITIVITY` of the aggregation
```

function.

> In this policy, we will describe how to achieve `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP, by asking
> each Aggregator to independently add discrete Gaussian noise to its aggregate
> share, and by using `Prio3Histogram` VDAF for aggregation and robustness
> considerations.

Reviewer: Simpler. Plus, what are "aggregation considerations"? :)
```suggestion
In this section we describe how to achieve `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP for `Prio3Histogram` by asking
each Aggregator to independently add discrete Gaussian noise to its aggregate
share.
```

Author: Copied some of the texts from Client-DP :)

#### Discrete Gaussian Mechanism for Aggregator-DP

> The Aggregator-DP we will use here is the discrete Gaussian mechanism described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the discrete Gaussian mechanism described
```

in {{discrete-gaussian}}, which has mean of 0, and is initialized with a `SIGMA`
parameter that stands for the standard deviation of the Gaussian distribution.

> In order to achieve `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP under OAOC trust model, all

Reviewer: Also, I think "in" sounds better than "under", though I'm not sure which would is more grammatically correct.
```suggestion
In order to achieve `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP under the OAOC trust model, all
```

Author: Me neither. I can change it to "in".

Aggregators need to independently add discrete Gaussian noise to all coordinates
of their aggregate shares.

To compute the parameter `SIGMA` for discrete Gaussian, Theorem 7 in {{CKS20}}

> and Theorem 8 in {{BW18}} have shown that the `SIGMA` parameter can be tuned to

Reviewer: Why are two citations needed/useful?

Author: So Theorem 8 of [BW18](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1805.06530.pdf) is the first paper that has the analysis for why *continuous* Gaussian achieves `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP. Theorem 7 in [CKS20](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.00010.pdf) shows similar result for discrete Gaussian.

There is a caveat though, also related to one feedback from Kunal: CKS20 makes a note that: when `SIGMA` is small, there is small difference in `(EPSILON, DELTA)` achieved by continuous and discrete Gaussian (Figure 1 has some details). If we use the algorithm from BW18 (which is intended for continuous Gaussian), we need to be careful when `SIGMA` is small, i.e., when the desired `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP is weak. I made an author note in the draft.

Reviewer: Good enough for now.

achieve `(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP, for a given L2-`SENSITIVITY` {{sensitivity}} of

> an aggregation function. In a histogram use case where each Client submits an

Reviewer: "To compute the parameter ... an aggregation function.": This sentence can be simplified. How about something like: "Theorem 7 in {{CKS20}} shows how to compute `SIGMA` for given approximate-DP parameters and L2-sensitivity."

Author: Good point. Fixed.

one-hot vector, the L2-`SENSITIVITY` is `sqrt(2)`, because changing one

> coordinate of a Client measurement affects two coordinates. Algorithm 1 in

Reviewer: "because changing one coordinate of a Client measurement affects two coordinates": What does this mean? Please unpack this a bit in the text.

Author: I clarified further:

> because transforming an one-hot vector into another will affect two coordinates, e.g., transforming an one-hot vector `[1, 0, 0]` to `[0, 1, 0]` changes L2-sensitivity by `sqrt(2)`.

Reviewer: Thanks!

{{BW18}} elaborates on the details of this tuning algorithm, and we will refer

> to the calculation in the open sourced code {{AGM}}.

Reviewer: Eventually this draft will need to be self-describing, i.e., it won't be sufficient to refer to code associated with some research paper. I'd leave an author note here so you remember to do this later.

Author: Added an author note there.

> JC: It's also worth exploring the utility of discrete Gaussian proven by
> Definition 3 in {{CKS20}}, which defines the concentrated-DP achieved by
> discrete Gaussian. Concentrated-DP is then converted to approximate-DP, which
> is our target here. As a first draft, we won't overwhelm readers with other
> types of DP.

> #### VDAF Robustness

Reviewer: Why is this a section? Also, why are we talking about robustness here? Our purpose is to describe a DP policy, whose security goals are orthogonal.

Author: Removed it. I thought I'd do something similar like the Client-DP section by briefly describing why use this VDAF.

> We will use `Prio3Histogram` {{Section 7.4.4 of !VDAF}} to enforce each Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use `Prio3Histogram` {{Section 7.4.4 of !VDAF}} to ensure that each Client
```

only has exactly one bit set in its measurement, since there is no Client-DP
needed.
> TODO(junyechen1996): We will need to recommend how to interpret large
> unsigned integers as negative noise from Gaussian, after VDAF aggregation.

~~~
class HistogramWithAggregatorDp(DpPolicy):
    Field = Histogram.Field
    # A measurement is an unsigned integer, indicating an index
    # less than `Histogram.length`.
    Measurement = Histogram.Measurement
    AggShare = list[Field]
    AggResult = Histogram.AggResult

>     # The final aggregate result should be a vector of *signed*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # The final aggregate result should be a vector of signed
```

    # integers, because discrete Gaussian could produce negative

>     # noise which may have a larger absolute value than the count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # noise that may have a larger absolute value than the count
```

    # before noise.
    DebiasedAggResult = list[int]

    def __init__(self, epsilon: float, delta: float):
        # TODO(junyechen1996): Consider using fixed precision or large
        # decimal for parameters like `epsilon` and `delta`. (#23)

>         # Changing one-hot vector to another will affect two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Transforming a one-hot vector into another will affect two
```

        # coordinates, so the change in L2-sensitivity is
        # `sqrt(1 + 1) = sqrt(2)`.
        dgauss_sigma = agm.calibrateAnalyticGaussianMechanism(
            epsilon, delta, math.sqrt(2.0)
        )
        self.dgauss_mechanism = \
            DiscreteGaussianWithZeroMean(dgauss_sigma)

    def add_noise_to_agg_share(self,
                               agg_share: AggShare,
                               ) -> AggShare:
        """

>         Sample discrete Gaussian noise, and merge it with aggregate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Sample discrete Gaussian noise, and merge it with the aggregate
```

deviation in the aggregate result thus becomes `SIGMA * sqrt(c)`, where `c` is
the number of honest Aggregators. In the table below, the numbers in
"Standard deviation" column assume `c = 2`. The numbers in
"Standard deviation (OAOC)" column assume only one Aggregator is honest.

| `EPSILON`       | `DELTA`     | Standard deviation    | Standard deviation (OAOC) |
|:----------------|:------------|:----------------------|:--------------------------|
| 0.317           | 1e-9        | 33.0788               | 23.3903                   |
| 0.906           | 1e-9        | 12.0777               | 8.5402                    |
| 1.528           | 1e-9        | 7.3403                | 5.1904                    |
{: #histogram-aggregator-dp title="Utility of Pure Aggregator-DP for histogram use case."}

### Conclusion

We just demonstrated two simple policies that achieve the same level of
`(EPSILON, DELTA)`-DP on histogram use case, under different trust models. They
are comparable in terms of utility, but because the second policy with only
Aggregator-DP requires all Aggregators to independently add noise to maintain

> OAOC trust model, we lose some utility when more than one Aggregator is honest.

Reviewer: Good summary! However, drafts don't usually have Conclusion sections the way papers do. I think this is a useful thing to note, but let's put it before the policies somewhere.

Author: Moved it to intro of histogram use case.
